## Task 8. : Create a VirtualMachine in the `kiwi` project with below requirements. 
- User `punit` should create a VirtualMachine named `myvm-lan3` from template "Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 VM"
- Use PVC URL, `http://utility.lab.example.com:8080/openshift4/images/rhel9-mariadb.qcow2`
-  The StorageClassName is `ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization`
-  The PVC size should be 30GiB
-  The Volume mode should be Block.
-  The workload type is the VirtualMachine is `server`
-  The flavor type of the VirtualMachine is `small`
-  The network interface name is `default`
-  The user `rajan` with password `anishrana2001` exists in the cloud-init definition.
-  The ssh Key "/home/student/.ssh/lab_rsa.pub" from user devops at workstation has been added as an authorized ssh key via the cloud-init definition


#### Networking: 
- The first Network Interface configuration
	- The first Network interface name is `default`
	- The First Network ineterface is attached to the `pod networking` (default) network
	- The first network interface type is `masquerade`
	- The model for the first network interface is `virtio`

- The Second Network Interface Configuration
	- The second network interface name is `nic-0`
	- The second network interface is attached to the `apple/database-network` network
	- The second network interface type is `bridge`
	- The IP address of the second network interface is provided by OpenShift
	- The model for the second network interface is `virto`


### Once the VM boot up, install the `mariadb` and `php` packages. Make sure that `mariadb` sevice should be up and running after the vm reboot.
- One can download the `yum.repo` file from `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anishrana2001/Openshift/refs/heads/main/DO316/yum.repo-file.repo`

### Create a Service:
- Create a service name `ex316-kiwi-svc`
  - Type: NodePort
  - Pod Selector: `app=web`
  - TCP Port `3306`
### Configure liveness probes.
- Configure a liveness probe for this VM in the `kiwi` project and make sure following conditions are true:
- The liveness probe tests the database server at TCP Port `3306`
- The time (in seconds) after the VM instance starts before the liveness probe is initiated is `10`
- The delay in seconds between performing probes is `5`
### Create a Snapshot of VM.
- Create a volume snapshot named `myvm-lan3-snap` of the VM `myvm-lan3` in the project `kiwi`
- The VM must be accessible through SSH and working state bedofre taking the snapshot
### Create a Clone.
- Create a clone of VM `myvm-lan3` in the project `kiwi` named `myvm-lan3-copy`

---
