## Prepare the Lab.
```
oc login -u admin -p redhatocp  https://api.ocp4.example.com:6443
oc adm cordon worker01
oc -n openshift-config get secrets htpasswd-secret -o json | jq -r '.data.htpasswd' | base64 --decode > /tmp/htpasswd-ex316.text
htpasswd -b /tmp/htpasswd-ex316.text suraj anishrana2001
htpasswd -b /tmp/htpasswd-ex316.text raja anishrana2001
oc -n openshift-config delete secrets htpasswd-secret 
oc -n openshift-config create secret generic htpasswd-secret --from-file htpasswd=/tmp/htpasswd-ex316.text

```
# Open a web browser and go to the web console URL.
```
https://console-openshift-console.apps.ocp4.example.com
```
# 1. Deploy Openshift Virtualization
- Deploy `Openshift Virtualization` operator in the `openshift-cnv` Project.
- Install and Configure Operator with the name `kubevirt-hyperconverged` in same Project.
---

# 2. Question: You task is to find the node and unset the maintenance mode. 
- Make Node is in Ready and Schedule state.
---

# 3. Configure User access and complete the below tasks.
- Create a `banana` Project.
- For project `banana`
	- A `raja` user should able to Create and Manage VirtualMachine.
	- A `suraj` user should view and access the "VirtualMachine performance metrics".
	- User `suraj` allowed to start/stop/restart/pause the VirtualMachine

- Create a `apple` Project
- For project `apple`
	- User suraj has the necessary roles needed to create and manage VirtualMachines in `apple` project.
  ### Please note that the password of raja and suraj users is "anishrana2001"
  ---
# 4. Create a VirtualMachine in the `banana` project with below requirements. 
- User `raja` should create a VirtualMachine named `myvm-lan1` from template "Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 VM"
- Use PVC URL, `http://utility.lab.example.com:8080/openshift4/images/rhel9-helloworld.qcow2`
-  The StorageClassName is `ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization`
-  The PVC size should be 30GiB
-  The Volume mode should be Block.
-  The workload type is the VirtualMachine is `server`
-  The flavor type of the VirtualMachine is `small`
-  The network interface name is `default`
-  The user raja with password `anishrana2001` exists in the cloud-init definition
-  The ssh Key "/home/student/.ssh/lab_rsa.pub" from user devops at workstation has been added as an authorized ssh key via the cloud-init definition
---
# 5. Configure a Web Server in a VirtualMachine `myvm-lan1` in a `banana` project
- Install the httpd package.
- One can download the yum.repo file from "sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/yum.repo-file.repo  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anishrana2001/Openshift/refs/heads/main/DO316/yum.repo-file.repo"
- httpd services must be enabled after the reboot.
- Download the service.html file from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anishrana2001/Openshift/refs/heads/main/DO316/service.html" and upload on `/var/www/html` on the VM.
- A Network Policy named `netpol-http` exists in the `banana` Project
- A `Clusterlp Service` allows Web Traffic into the `myvm-lan1` VirtualMachine
- The Network Policy Restricts access to the VirtualMachine `myvm-lan1` and allowing only the member of Project `banana` to access TCP port `80` 
- Other Project cannot Reach the VirtualMachine `myvm-lan1` at TCP Port `80`
---

# 6. Deploy a Multihomed VirtualMachine
- Create a VM called `mariadb-server` from template `RedHat Linux 9.2 VirtualMachine` with 2 Network interfaces in `apple` project.
- The Workload type of the VirtualMachine is `server` and flavor is `small`.
- The user suraj creates the VirtualMachine `mariadb-server`
- The user suraj with password "anishrana2001" should exists in the cloud-init definition.
- The ssh Key /home/opsadm/.ssh/id_rsa_ex316.pub from user opsadm at workbench.lab.example.com has been added as an authorized ssh key via the cloud-init definition

## Storage Configuration
- The Image used to Create the Persistemt volume claim for the VirtualMachine boot source is http://utility.lab.example.com:8080/openshift4/images/rhel9-helloworld.qcow2
- The StorageClassName is `ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization`
- The PVC size is 10Gi

## The first Network Interface configuration
- The first Network interface name is default
- The First Network ineterface is attached to the pod networking (default) network
- The first network interface type is masquerade
- The model for the first network interface is virtio

## The Second Network Interface Configuration
- The second network interface name is `nic-0`
- The second network interface is attached to the `apple/database-network` network
- The second network interface type is `bridge`
- The IP address of the second network interface is provided by OpenShift
- The model for the second network interface is virto
---

# 7. Manage Storage for VirtualMachines
- Create two VirtualMachine in project `vm-image` in the following way:
- Create a VirtualMachine named `replicated` using `replicated-template` template
- Create a VirtualMachine named `web1` using `web1-template` template, do not change the template
- Make sure the following conditions are met

# Move the disk `goldimg` from the VirtualMachine `replicated` to VirtualMachine `web1`

- The disk uses the same setting as the original `goldimg` on replicated, such as storageClass, acessMode,etc
- The disk is a block device and is accessible via /dev/vdc
- The disk is mounted at /var/www/html of `web1` permanently
- Ensure the VirtualMachine `replicated` has a disk named `gori`
- User name is `raja` and password is `anishrana2001`
- The disk uses http://materials.lab.example.com/images/disk-2024.gcow2 as a source
- The disk size is 1Gi
- The disk support shared access
- The disk is a block device and is accessible via /dev/vdc
- The disk is mounted at /var/www/html on `replicated` permanently
- Ensure the exiting data on these disk is preserved

Both VirtualMachine are running normally


# 8. Create a VirtualMachine Template
  - Create a project `kiwi` and a VirtualMachine template according to the following requirements
  - The Template name is `tmprhl9small` in the `kiwi` project
  - The Template is clone of the build-in rhel9-server-small template
- # VirtualMachine Created using this template use:
  - Name of the VM should be `database-kiwi`
  - Flavor small, with 1 CPU and 2Gi RAM
  - Storage space is 10Gi
  - Disk source rhel-9.2-x86_64-kvm.qcow2 provided at  http://utility.lab.example.com:8080/openshift4/images/mariadb-server.qcow2
  - storageCLassName: `ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization`
  - The user `rahul` can login to these VirtualMachines on the console with password `anishrana2001`
  - The user `vinod` can login to these vitual machines via SSH without a password by using /home/opsdam/.ssh/id_rsa_ex316.pub key on workbench.example.com
  - When instantiated, these vitual machine will install the `kiwi` RPM which is available from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anishrana2001/Openshift/refs/heads/main/DO316/yum.repo-file.repo
---

# 9. Create a service using VirtualMachine load balancing
### In the Project `kiwi` create the following Objects:

- Using the temaple `tmprhl9small` which you created previously, instantiate two identical VirtualMachine named `web1` and `web2`
- Create a service name `ex316-kiwi-svc`
    Type: NodePort
    Pod Selector: app=web
- TCP Port 3306 of each VM is connected to any worker node port 3306
- Create a route named web-route so that above service will be availabled at address `anishrana2001-lb.apps.ocp4.example.com`
- Perform the SSH to anishrana2001-lb.apps.ocp4.example.com
---
# 10. Create a VirtualMachine snapshot
- Create a volume snapshot named `web2-snap-maria` of the VM `web2` in the project `kiwi`.
- Note: - The VM must be accessible through SSH and in a 'kiwi' working state bedofre taking the snapshot
---

# 11. Configure VirtualMachine migration
- Configure the VirtualMachine migration so that the following condition are true:
- The VirtualMachine `mariadb-server` in the project `apple` is able to migrate between the nodes with label `datacenter: paris`
- The VirtualMachine `mariadb-server` in the Project `apple` is not able to migrate to any other nodes
---
## 12. Quesation: You need to prepare a VirtualMachine for cloning.
## Clone the root disk of the VM named `web1` in the project `kiwi` as `web1-copy` by using Data Volumes
---
# 13. Configure a liveness probe
- Configure a liveness probe for the `mariadb-server` VM in the `apple` project and make sure following conditions are true:
- The liveness probe tests the database server at TCP Port 3306
- The time (in seconds) after the VM instance starts before the liveness probe is initiated is 100
- The delay in seconds between performing probes is 5
- download the yum.repo file to `mariadb-server` VM from "sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/yum.repo-file.repo https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anishrana2001/Openshift/refs/heads/main/DO316/yum.repo-file.repo"
---
# 14. Prepare a VirtualMachine for node failure
- Create and configure a VirtualMachine to survive a node failure so that the following conditions are true:
- Create a VirtualMachine named is `ha-node-vm1` from the template called `ha-node-template`
- The VirtualMachine should run in the projects `ha-node`
- VirtualMachine is automatically schedule on either master1.example.com or master2.example.com
- In the event of a failure of either node, the VirtualMachine is automatically started on the other node
---
# 15. Import a vSphere VirtualMachine
- One or more VirtualMachine images are available for browsing from your workstation system using the command: `elinks dump utility.lab.example.com:/exports-ocp4/ova` images
- Import the VirtualMachine called rhel9-web according to the following requirements:
- The imported VirtualMachine exists in the `vms-import` project
- The network of the source VirtualMachine has been mapped to the pod network of the imported VirtualMachine.
- The imported VirtualMachine used the `ocs-external-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization` storage class
- The imported VirtualMachine is running
- VM has two networks: one that is using the `pod networking`, and the other that is using the `default/vm-private-net` network.
- SSH to `utility` machine and curl the imported VM IP.
---
