
# Question 2. Manage Cluster Project and Permissions:
- Create 3 projects, `front-end`, `back-end`, and `app-db`
- `harry` user should have cluster administrator rights.
- `leader` user should be able create project but not administrator tasks.
- No other user should able to create project.
- `raja` user can only `view` the resources of `front-end` and `back-end` projects.
- `qa-engineer` user should have `admin` access to  `front-end` project.
- `kubaadmin` is  not present  (make sure your cluster-admin user is working fine before delete kubeadmin, otherwise ocp-cluster not recoverable)
---
## Solution:
### Create a 3 groups by `harry' user.
```
oc  new-project  front-end
```
```
oc  new-project  back-end
```
```
oc  new-project  app-db
```
### Cluster administrator for harry
```
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user cluster-admin harry
```

### or no other user should able to create project.
```
oc describe clusterrolebindings self-provisioners 
```

### You may observe that ClusterRoleBinding "self-provisioners" has some group added like "system:authenticated:oauth"
```
oc adm policy remove-cluster-role-from-group  self-provisioners system:authenticated:oauth
```

### `leader` user should be able create project but not administrator tasks
```
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user self-provisioners leader
```
### `raja` user can only `view` the resources of `front-end` and `back-end` projects.
```
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user view raja -n front-end
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user view qa-engineer -n back-end
```
### `qa-engineer` user should have `admin` access to  `front-end` project.
```
oc policy add-role-to-user admin qa-engineer -n front-end
```


##### As of now, we haven't tried to login into the cluster, so these user are not created at cluster level. 
```
oc get users 
```

```
oc login -u harry -p review
```

```
oc login -u leader -p review
```

```
oc login -u raja -p review
```

```
oc login -u qa-engineer -p review
```

```
oc new-project  test
```
### `kubeadmin` user should not exist (remove kubeadmin user)  (make sure your cluster-admin user is working fine before delete kubeadmin, otherwise ocp-cluster not recoverable)
### Now, its time to remove the kubeadmin but before that login with harry user. 
## Firtly, we will login from our newly admin user `harry`
```
oc login -u harry -p review
```

```
oc get users 
```

```
oc  -n kube-system  get secret/kubeadmin
```

```
oc  -n kube-system  delete secret/kubeadmin
```


