## Prepare the lab. 
```
oc new-project quart
oc new-app --name todo-http --image registry.ocp4.example.com:8443/redhattraining/todo-angular:v1.1
oc expose service todo-http --hostname  server1.apps.ocp4.example.com
```


# Protect External Traffic with TLS
### Create secure Route  with below information
- Create a secure route in `quart` project.
- Expose application https://anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com
- Generate self sign certificate using given  subject	
- "/C=US/ST=North Carolina/L=Raleigh/O=Red Hat/CN=anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com"
- Note: Service already  created  in any given project you just have to expose  service  with https
- The application should produce the output
---
### Solution:
### Go to the give project `quart`
```
oc project quart
```

```
oc get all
```

### Check the website.
```
curl server1.apps.ocp4.example.com
```
## Check route
```
oc get route
```
### Delete this route, so that we will create a new one.
```
oc delete routes.route.openshift.io todo-http
```

### 1. Generate a Private Key:
```
openssl genrsa -out /tmp/myserver.key 4096
```
- openssl genrsa: This command generates an RSA private key.
- -out server.key: Specifies the output file name for the key.
- 4096: Sets the key size to 4096 bits (a common and secure size)

### 2. Generate the Self-Signed Certificate:

```
openssl req -new -x509 -key server.key -out server.crt -subj "/C=US/ST=North Carolina/L=Raleigh/O=Red Hat/CN=anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com"
```

- openssl x509: This command generates the certificate.
- -req: Indicates that you're using a CSR.
- -days 365: Specifies the validity period of the certificate in days (365 in this example). 
- -key server.key: Specifies the private key file to use.
- -out server.crt: Specifies the output file name for the self-signed certificate. 
- Subject is given in the question.    ==> "/C=US/ST=North Carolina/L=Raleigh/O=Red Hat/CN=anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com"
- C: Country Name                       ==> US
- ST: State or Province Name            ==> North Carolina
- L: Locality Name (City)               ==> Raleigh
- O: Organization Name                  ==> Red Hat
- CN: Common Name (FQDN of your server) ==> anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com	


### Now, we have to delete the existing route and create a same route with CRT and KEY.

```
oc get all
```
```
oc delete route/myapp-route
```
```
oc create route edge --service todo-http --key server.key --cert server.crt --hostname anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com

```

### Post check 
```
oc get route
```

```
curl https://anishrana2001.apps.ocp4.example.com
```


